♪ [music] ♪
The last two pieces of using our API have
been getting, getting, getting data.
We've been pulling data from or API given
that we give it something like a latitude
and longitude or a search term. What we
want to do now is actually do something
where we're going to push data to
the API. So we're going to be looking at
these heart icons here. And when you heart
something, it's going to add it to a list
of your hearts and you can click on
your heart page and you can see a list of
everything that you have then hearted. So
that's going to be using the API.
Why? Because when you click on the heart,
we don't want to actually push you to any
page, we want that just to happen in real
time. So let's dive into that now.
First thing that we need to do is actually
modify our user schema,
because the way that this is going to work
is that every time you heart a store,
the ID of the store will be put
into your actual user account,
and then then we're going to have a
property on the user called hearts.
So let's open up user.js, which is our
model here, and we're going to add a new
field which is going to be called hearts.
Now, what will the hearts look like? Well,
it is going to be a relationship because
the user is going to heart many stores,
but there's going to be many.
So how do you do a relationship with
multiple object IDs? Well,
you say it's going to be an array, and
then each of the things in the array are
going to be an object with the type of
mongoose.Schema.ObjectId,
and that will tell it that is expecting an
ID, and then we tell it the ref is going
to be in this store. Right?
So, a couple things. We're telling it that
hearts is going to be an array of IDs that
are related to a store. That, when we want
to populate our hearts,
we're going to see all of the stores in
this actual hearts, not just the list of
IDs.
So good, that's the first part done. Next
we need to create some sort of interface
to actually handle hearting each of these.
So let's open up our storeCard.pug,
and you'll see that we have all this
action already here. We're going to do
another action here. We're going to say,
"if user" and what that will do is that
we're going to check if they're logged in
first because there's no sense in showing
the hearting interface to people who are
logged out. And if that is true,
we're going to have a
store__action.store__action--heart. So
that's a class of storeAction and a class
of storeAction-heart.
Then inside of that, we need an actual
form tag, right? Because
whenever you're submitting data to
the backend, it's easiest just to have a
form tag.
That way if JavaScript does ever fail,
then it will still work as a regular form
submit. So we've a form with a class of
heart and the method on that is going to
be post, and the action is going to be,
make sure you use back text, here,
'/api/stores/' we're going to grab the
store. _id as part of the store endpoint,
just to show you that you can also pass
IDs via the URL and then "/heart" because
that's the actual action that we're going
to do there. Then inside of that we're
going to have a button with the type of
submit. So, rather than having an input
that I have to submit using this button.
Why? Because we actually want to put some
HTML inside of a button, and you can't put
HTML inside of an input.
That will have a name of "heart" and then
inside of it we're going to use our thing
"!=h. icon('heart') and that's going to be
our heart icon. You'll see sort of an ugly
button, and we'll worry about the look in
just a second, but, if you were to press
that, it should submit this form and then
give us a 404 because we haven't actually
set up this route yet. So let's try to
click one. There we go.
We tried to post to api/stores this actual
store. _id/heart. That's what's next up.
We need to actually go and make the route
and the method to handle that.
Open up index. js and go down to where our
api is and we'll make the route for that,
router. post('/api/stores/:id/heart'). And
then when that happens,
we're going to catch errors, we are going
to use the storeController.heartStore.
Good then we'll go into our
storeController here and down at the
bottom we'll make a new one, exports.
heartStore =
and we'll make it a sync, request
response. Now, what we need to now get is
at first we need a list of the person's
stores because we need to know if they
already have the store in their hearts,
then by posting to this URL we're going to
remove it. If they all don't have it, then
posting to this URL will add it.
Sort of like a toggle where we don't
really care all that much about if they
have done it or not, it will just do the
opposite. So we need to get a list or an
array of hearts, so we'll say, "const
hearts =...
we'll take the user request.user.hearts
and we'll map over each of them
where each object that comes back... and
this is a little bit weird because you
would think that we already have an array
of IDs because if we look at our here we
have an array of IDs. But it's really an
array of objects and we want just an array
of strings that is specific to that user.
So we'll take each object and we'll run
the obj.toString and that will work
because MongoDB has overwritten the
toString method on each of the objects,
which will allow us to get a list of
possible strings. So let's just console.
log hearts when we post to that and then,
let's actually just say, "res.
json(hearts); send the data back to
the person and give them a list of their
actual hearts when they have it.
We go back to stores here, click on hearts
for one of them and we get back an empty
array. Why is that? Well, because I'm new,
I haven't... I don't have any hearts.
I don't have a heart, I'm a
terrible person and I don't have a heart,
but I don't have any hearts in my array,
yet. So now what we need to do is we're
going to be taking the user and we're
going to be running one called
findOneAndUpdate which is going to allow
us to find the user and then update the
actual thing. However, the operators in
which we can either take it out of or put
it into needs to be a variable. So we're
going to make a new variable here called
operator, and the operator is going to
check if our hearts includes the current
ID that's being posted, right? So if we
have an array, we're going to say,
"Is this one already in the array?" and if
it is, then remove it.
If it's not, then add it. Right? So
we're going to say hearts.include
and then how do we how do we get
this from the URL? Well,
we told it it would be a program of ID.
So we could say, "request.params.id"
and if it is in there, the
operator is going to be $pull which is the
MongoDB operator of removing from this
array on our user. Otherwise,
the opposite of $pull is going to be
something called $addToSet.
And the reason why it's not $push is
because we want it to be unique.
If we use... there is an equivalent
to $push in MongoDB which it will just add
it multiple times. But by saying
$addToSet, it will make sure that we don't
accidentally, for whatever happens, we
don't accidentally add it twice to a
specific user. If it's already there, it
will just duplicate it over.
So then we can say "const user =
await User.findByIdAndUpdate;"
That was a long one.
And we got to find the current user (req.
user_id, ) we're going to find the current
user, and when that happens we are going
to update it. I'm going to put these on
their own line here. Let's put
findByIdAndUpdate. Put that on its own
line. Then once we have found it by ID,
we are going to pass it all of the data.
And in this case we normally say we're
going to $pull the hearts property,
which is going to be req.params.id and
that would take it out.
Or we're going to say $addToSet, and
that's going to put it into our array.
But because we've put it in a variable,
we can use the computed property names
in ES6 which is [operator]. And what
that's going to do is it's either going to
replace itself with $pull or $addToSet.
Okay? And then what we often need as a
third option here, we could say "new:true"
and what that will do is,
by updating the user it's going to return
to us the updated user rather than the
previous user. I'll show you what that
means in just a second.
So we have this user here, we'll, let's
res.json(user) the actual user.
And let's go back, I'm going to refresh
and let's actually post to one of
these, and, oh, we get user is not
defined. And why is that? It's because we
actually haven't worked with the user here
just yet. So let's go to the top here and
import the user. There we go. We'll
duplicate that and we'll say,
"const User = mongoose. model('user');"
Now if I go back of my stores and heart
one of them, look what happened. So what
we did, let's go over that again.
We posted to this URL with the ID in it
and what MongoDB will do is it will get a
list of the user's hearts, in this case it
was an array of nothing,
then it will check if that heart is
already in that array and,
if it is, it will $pull it, meaning it
will take it out. If it's not,
it will $addToSet, meaning it will put it
in. Then we went ahead and found the
current user, updated their hearts
property, and then we said new is true.
And if we didn't have that on there, it
would have returned to us hearts.
It still would have added it, but it would
have given us the empty array because it,
by default, will return to you, the user,
before it's been updated,
not after. So we would say new it's true
to have that. Good. So now if I go back
and I go to another store and heart it, it
should say...there we go,
our hearts is an array of two things. And
let's do one more Donut Monster Heart,
now there's three things. Now, if I go
back and Heart Donut Monster once more,
it takes it out because at this point it
was included in the hearts array,
and then we used $pull instead of
$addToSet in the last two.
Refresh your page, you should now see that
we have two under hearts because we have
hearted two of the actual stores. And how
is that working? Well,
if we open up our layout.pug and we go
down to where it says,
"heart" we say, "if user, then " it will
give us the icon heart. And then this is
the line right here, line 29 or so. It
says the heart-count will first check if
there is a user.hearts. It first checks if
there's actually a hearts property because
as we're developing this we just added it
in. And then if there is a hearts array,
it's going to just tell us the actual
length of the number of hearts that we
have, and that's why it says two.
If I go and heart another one,
you should have... there's three in there.
And I go back and I refresh, that
will now show me three. So that shows me
that data. Let's also update this
interface, here, so that it will be red if
the heart is hearted,
and it will be white if it's unhearted. So
we'll go back to our store card here,
and we need to do something
similar to what we just did. It's,
first we need to get a list of all of the
heart strings and then we also need to
check if that is included in it. So let's
go right above this button here and we'll
make a variable. And the way that you
make a variable in Pug is you do a dash,
so we'll say "- const heartStrings =
user.hearts.map" So we're going to map
over the user's hearts and we're going to
take each object and we're going to return
the obj.toString(). Again, that will just
give us a list of the actual hearts that
the person has. And how can you tell if
that worked? You could do a quick pre=h.
dump(heartStrings), we'll see here. So now
for each store, we're seeing a list of all
of the user's heartStrings, and then we
also already have the current store's
string, because we could dump that as
well, you just store._id.
So now what we're going to do is we're
going to check if the store's ID is in
that array of hearted stores, and if it's
not, we'll make it white,
if it is, we'll make it red. So what we'll
do here is we'll make a new variable
called "- const heartClass" and we'll say
if the heartStrings includes the
store._id. toString, because, again the
store._id is actually not a string.
It's technically an object which has some
methods on it, so we want to make a
true string otherwise the
includes won't work. If that is true,
then we will make the heartClass
heart__button--hearted. And then
otherwise what we're going to do
is just return nothing there.
Then we can get rid of these two pres and
"class=heartClass. Give that a save.
Now, when we refresh you'll see that the
white ones are unhearted and the red ones
are hearted. One other thing is that we
have this white background on it,
and that's because our button also needs
just a base class of heart__button.
Let's see if that works. Beautiful.
So now it is white or red,
and if I were to click one of these, it
still submits us to the page.
I can go back and refresh the page and
that one should now be red.
There it is, red. What we're going to do
now is actually use our API endpoint to
make this happen automatically so you
don't actually have to leave the page to
heart something. We're going to turn the
color red, we're going to actually add
it to the user and then we're going to
also update this little thing up here.
So let's go and make ourselves a new
JavaScript file. So public > javascripts
> modules, make a new file called heart.js
and then open up your delicious-app.js.
So those are the two that we need open
right now. And in our heart.js
we just have a couple lines of
JavaScript. The first thing we need is
axios, then we're going to make a function
called ajaxHeart() and that is going to
take in the event that we're going to hook
up to the submit event on this little
form tag that we have here,
and then we want to export that. Good.
Then we want to go into our delicious-app
and we're going to import that ajaxHeart.
So we'll say, import ajaxHeart from...
What we're going to do down here is we're
going to select all of our heartForms,
and we can use '$$" that's
document.queryselectorselector all,
form.heart.
So any form that
has a class of heart...
and you can put that in a variable if you
want, so "- const heartForms =" and then
we can console.log the heartForms just to
make sure that we are pulling them up.
So here open up your console and refresh
the page, and you see that we have 19
heartForms on this page. Why? Because
there's 19 stores on our actual page.
Good. And then we can just take those
heartForms and we can use the "on" which
is like the add event listener, we can
listen for the submit event,
and when the summit event happens we are
going to run our function called
ajaxHeart. Good. So select all the forms
when the forms are submitted then call
ajaxHeart. And this is really nice with
these bling JSs that you can listen for
events on multiple on a node list rather
than having to loop over every single one.
So go back into our heart.js and, you
tell me, how do you stop a form from
submitting itself? Well, you just "e." and
you take the event and you call
preventdefault, then we can
console. log. Heart it.
Now we'll give this a refresh
and click on your heart and
you don't see anything actually happen
because we've stopped the default which is
the post, and we are taking over with
JavaScript, and what we're going to do is
we're going to actually make the post
happen with JavaScript rather than use the
browser to post that actual data.
So we can keep that console.log there and
we're going to take our axios and we're
going to .post to this.action. Why? Okay,
hold on, let's comment that out.
Console.log this. What is this going to
be equal to? This will be equal to the
thing that this function was called
against which is going to be the
form tag, and then we need this
action because that's the URL we want to
hit. So if we axios.post to this.action,
we can chain a .then() on,
which gives us our response,
and chain a .catch() on.
I believe I forgot the .catch()
in the last one,
so make sure you
go back in and grab that and just console.
error it or handle it however you please
there. So, first thing we want to do is
just let's just console. log, or request
data, or response that data and see if
it's actually working. So Randy's Joint,
I'm going to heart it.
And we hearted it and pretty soon after we
get an Object() come back which has our
hearts array. Now we have five things in
our hearts array and if I refresh this
page, this should now be red. Beautiful.
Now, if I click it, again,
it should take it off see our hearts array
is four and I refresh the page,
it's going to be white. So we don't want
to have to refresh the page to see both
that interface there happen, as well as
this little number should be updating
itself. So we're going to check if the
heart is already hearted,
so we'll make a variable called isHearted
and we're going to simply take this.
heart... Whoa, what is this. heart? Back
it up. This, we are ready talked about,
is the form tag,
and heart is going to be a sub-property
or a sub-element inside of it.
And how does that work?
Well, if you have 'this'
which is our form tag
and then if you have any elements inside
of your &lt;form&gt; tag that have a name
attribute, you can access those elements
by saying this.the-name-attribute.
So this.heart is going to give us our
actual button. Okay, good. We'll say
this.heart.classList.toggle... we're
going to toggle the class of
heart "__button--hearted." And make sure
you don't put it like a dot in front of
there. I know a lot of people have like
a weird habit of toggling a class with a
dot in front of it. So take that off and
then we're just going to console.log
isHearted and see what we've got there.
Okay. So both of these are hearted, so
when I click it, it says "false" and it
will take the class off. Click that and it
will say "false" and it'll take the class
off. And I should... this is five now, I
refresh the page it should say, three.
Good. Click it, it turns it red again.
Click that, it turns it red again as well.
Refresh the page, we've got five.
So, good, we've got our functionality
happening, we've got our interface
updating, the last little piece that we
want is this little number needs to now
be updated. So what we're going to do is
we're going to select that heart count
here. If you inspect it, there is a class
of heart-count on it. So we will import
our bling. Import $, import our $ from
bling, go down here, and we'll say,
".heart-count.textContent=
response.data.hearts.length." Why?
Because response.data is going to give us
the entire user, .hearts is going to give
us the hearts array, and length will tell
us how many hearts are in that array.
And if I give that a save here, we've got
five. If I click it, it will bring it
right down to four. If I heart it
again, it will bring it up to five.
So that is now happening in real time.
Last cool thing I want to do is, if when
we click on one of these... let's make a
little... let's make a little heart sort
of like jump out of there. And what I
have done is, if you add a class of
heart__button--float to this thing, it
will automatically make a little heart
float out of it. So let's go find this
button here and, if I were to then...
It's a little bit cramped in here but if
I were to give it a class of
heart__button--float... and watch
when I hit Enter. You ready? Put your eyes
on the heart. I'm going to hit enter.
You see that? Where did that come from?
Well, there is a CSS animation that I've
put in the hearts.scss file, and on our
buttons I have an after element here
where the content is just a heart, and the
font size and the pixel and the opacity
is zero, and then when it is floated,
when it has a class of float on it, I am
just going to add an animation of fly
over two and a half seconds. And what
fly will do is it's a CSS key frame that
will sort of just transition it from where
it is up back and forth, back and forth,
back and forth, and then eventually to
opacity of zero, so you cannot see it any
longer. So that's kind of fun, and the way
that we can do that is we want to check
if it is hearted. So we'll say "if
isHearted then" we are going to say
this.heart.classlist.add. we're going
to add that class of heart__button--float.
Let's see if that works. Oh, didn't work
because I forgot a T. Let's try it again
with The French. So that worked great, and
what we need to do is after two and a
half seconds we need to take that off, so
I'll say "set time out," we'll have an
arrow function and we can sort of say
"this.heart.classlist.remove" we're going
remove the heart__button--float after
two and a half seconds. And the reason
why I use an arrow function there is so
I can use 'this' and still reference our
actual form tag.
So that will just take it off,
otherwise you'll have these invisible
hearts and sometimes they can get in the
way of clicking other elements on the
page, so we want to make sure that we
just remove it entirely and then that will
also allow us to unheart it and then
heart it again, and over and over and
over again. So that is adding our hearts
to our actual data. If you ever want to
see that data about your user, you can
just go into your layout.pug. And, again,
anywhere you want, you can just do a quick
dump, h.dump, you can dump your
user, and you're going to see that your
user now has a hearts array which has
items taken on and away from it.
So you're going to take that away and
refresh and we're good to go.
♪ [music] ♪